1. The term of identity is a concern given to:
    1. People
    2. Applications
    3. Devices
2. Ways to approve access to certain resources:
    1. Password
    2. Secret Key
    3. Certificate
3. Microsoft uses something called Active Directory to verify the identities. The homolgous in cloud is called:
    1. Active Directory --> Microsoft Entra ID (it was called in the past as Azure Active Directory, they changed it)
4. Active Directory and Microsoft Entra are not direct replacements of each other. They are similar but not equal
5. On-prem Active Directory uses protocols (like LDAP or Kerberos) that are not going to work over the internet
6. Microsoft Entra uses protocols, like SAML and Oauth, that do work over the internet

7. I can login to Entra ID using another platform like Facebook, for instance.
8. Entra ID uses AI to check "login patterns" in order to prevent any kind of threats. Suspicious patterns like:
    1. Repeatedly login
    2. Repeatedly logout
9. Local Active Directory used are gonna be synchronized seemlessly with Entra ID. Users are gonna be updated or deleted at once if it's done in any location
10. I could synchronize Entra ID with any other service in azure
11. Ways to authenticate these days:
    1. MFA --> We don't have to pay for using this. It's a free feature in Azure
        1. Factors (selected way to use MFA) that can be used in MFA:
            1. Microsoft Authentication App
            2. Authenticator Lite (in Outlook)
            3. Windows Hello for Business --> This is secure because it's carved in the hardware of our machine. So, we must have access physically to our machine to use this factor.
            4. FIDO2 security key
            5. OATH hardware token (in preview)
            6. OATH software token --> This is the one that you installed in your phone. An application different to Microsoft Authentication App
            7. SMS
            8. Voice call
    2. Thumbprint identification
    3. Face recognition

12. Entra ID Conditional Access
    1. It's a service to verify the (to measure the danger of a logged in):
        1. Location
        2. Device
        3. Measuring the range of time passed since a last logged in to Entra ID
        4. More on
    2. It's an additional service that has to be paid to be used

13. Passwordless authentication
    1. To authenticate in Azure without using a password. The ways to do it are:
        1. To draw some patterns in our cellphone
        2. To type a PIN
        3. Biometric recognition (face, iris, fingerprint). --> This isn't saved by Azure because I have to save this biometric information in my cellphone, and my cellphone is the responsible of the recognition process
        4. Auto-lock when I'm away of my devices (via Bluetooh)

14. Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) is the preffered tool to handle authorization in Azure
    1. I can create built-in and custom roles
    2. It's better not to give specific permissions to an isolated users
    3. There are three basic roles:
        1. Reader
        2. Contributor (This is an admin role that can NOT make another an admin)
        3. Owner (This is an admin role that CAN make another an admin)

15. Some principles in security:
    1. Least Privilege Access
    2. Just-in-time (JIT) --> You have access just for an amount of time enough to do your task
    3. Just-enough-access (JEA)
    4. I have to implement security even inside the company, there could be an immpostor among us. Security approaches such as:
        1. Encryption --> Encrypted HTTPS channel, for instance
        2. Segmentation
        3. Threat detection --> Using AI to detect unsual behavior, for instance
    5. Ways to secure certain parts of our system:
        1. In devices: ensure compliance (e.g. every computer used by the employees should have certain software and version installed) and health status (e.g. versions of software or hardware used)
        2. In applications: appropiate in-app permissions, monitor user actions
        3. In data: data-driven protection, encrypt and restrict access
        4. In infrastructure: robust monitoring to detect attacks, block and flag risky behavior
        5. In network: encrypt all communications in transit

16. Places in Azure where I have to take care of their security (MORE (SECURITY) IS BETTER WHEN IT COMES TO DEFENSE):
    1. Data
    2. Application
    3. Compute
    4. Network
    5. Perimeter
    6. Indentity & Access
    7. Physical

17. "Microsoft defender for Cloud" is a service given by AZ that helps us secure all the services I can use in AZ. 
    1. The trade-off here is the cost, because we have to pay for every service that this tool is going to take care of. It is not as the other services that we just have to pay for the use of the service itself (Microsoft defender for Cloud) and that's all.
    2. There are different ways to choose to pay for the services to secure